Lesson 5
This lesson is mainly focused on creating the appropriate testing environments. It also brings up the importance of logging.

After reading through the first part of chapter 2, I realized I needed to have the environment set up in a virtual machine ahead of time.
So to begin with I'll be creating an ubuntu and windows vm. I'll need to ensure that virtualization is available on my pc first though.
I have enabled virtualization through the bios of my PC.

I installed virtualbox as my relevant vming software following along with this tutorial https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJs70jQi7Wk
I installed it through pacman.
Next I'll need to create a Debian LTS os and a windows 11 one.
To create the windows virtual machine I downloaded the appropriate iso from the microsoft website and put it into the vbox vm creation tool, I have created user information and am assigning appropriate memory and processor amount.

I also wanted to set up the virtual disks on a non-main drive so I set up the apropriate mounting mechanisms in my fstab file.
After setting up the proper mounting I need to move the vm over, which required me to reset the permissions of the drive folders. 
I'm currently getting an error where it cannot enumerate USB devices, currently researching a fix to this issue.
I fixed the above issue by adding $USER to the vboxusers group, and grabbing the vbox extensions from the AUR page and restarting the desktop.
I noticed I'm getting an error with the unattended setup, and have determined that the needed files are missing, therefore I need to verify or reinstall virtualbox.
After installing the needed setup files from the AUR and recreating the VM, I've booted the vm and begun the installation process.
After some time the VM opened appropriately and correctly showed the number of processes and ram that was passed to it.

To continue I've grabbed the debian 12 iso from debian.org and also added it to a vm in vbox with similar settings to the windows 11 vm. I was then able to boot it immediately.
To fix a mouse issue that was occurring I'm switching the USB controller for the Debian vm to xHCI.
Continuing I'll follow chapter 2 of the book Digital Forensics with Open Source Tools to setup the vm's.

To get the first package "build-essentials" I needed to switch to root with su root, and then use apt-get to install build-essential. It was already installed.
I first check if perl is installed, it is so I ensure that the version is after 5.10.1 and I run perl -MCPAN -e shell and run through with the default configuration.
Next I'll ensure I have python3 and python 2 installed, after checking I appear to have python 3.11 but not python2 so I'll need to install that via apt-get.
I installed python2.7.18 from the python website as a zipped file and have then unzipped it. Next I'll need to configure, make. I won't make install it because I don't want to mess up the VM.
I also installed ruby 3.1 which came with rubygems installed.
In attempting to install the losetup command I cannot find an alternative and the book didn't prepare for this situation so I'll be moving on.
I've installed the FUSE modules that I can, however, it something occurred with the python fuse module so it'll have to wait.
I've installed XMOUNT via apt-get
I took a few pictures throughout this process for use in the assignment.
This should conclude the linux vm setup.

To begin the setup for windows I'll install cygwin from the cygwin website afterwards in the installation process I'll install the packages: automaker, make, make, CVS, subversion, mercurial, GCC, gcc-g++, git, python, perl, ruby, mintty
Next I'll be installing perl, ruby, and python natively. I'll be installing Strawberry perl instead of active perl because I don't want to put my login information in the vm. I've also installed python 2.7 and 3.11. Next I'll be installing ruby 3.2 as well with the ruby installer for windows.
Next I'll be installing ImDisk for disk image work and I'll install 7zip as it's my preferred unzipping program for windows. After installing 7zip from the website I install ImDisk and follow the setup advice in the reademe file
Then I start the service following the instructions of the book, which gives me the ability to run the program from the control panel. After doing so I'll begin to test the program by mounting an ntfs image from dftt.sourceforge.net. In this instance I'm pretty heavily following what the book is directing.
Next I'll be installing HFS explorer for mac related file systems and ext2fsd to look at ext2 and ext3 file systems.
Unfortunately the last update for ext2fsd was roughly 6 years ago and it has no official support for windows 11 so it may be an error point later on. The official website also no longer exists and is only on the wayback machine. So instead I'll be installing the Windows subsystem for Linux 2 or WSL2 for short. It should allow the mounting of linux disks later on.
After installing hfs explorer from the link provided in the book it failed to boot due to a missing java instance, so I'll need to grab that as well. I've installed Java 8v381, hopefully that is sufficient.
It was sufficient although one thing to note is the most recent release of HFS explorer was nearly 2 years ago.
